I've got to be honest with you I'm tired
of covering all these heavy EVS some of
them are great but even the best ones
are just masking their weight instead of
actually removing it which is why here
today Miata this right here is one of
the lightest cars on the market at
2374 lb and man we have had a heatwave
for the last two weeks that I've had
this it has been fantastic let's have a
look
[Music]
what we have right here is the 2024
model otherwise known as the nd3 so
that's the third facelift of the fourth
generation and it is fantastic you can
tell that it's the nd3 because we have a
little radar sensor right here that gets
us our adaptive cruise and the
headlights are more newer looking and
mostly just the same popping the hood we
have the real MVP of the show meaning
the minimum viable power this right here
is a 2 L 4 cylinder engine with a
compression ratio of 13 to1 which is
pretty darn high but for Mazda these
days this is skyactive G and their Sky
Active X has much higher compression
ratios and more power and it's kind of
just better but this thing is still
pretty darn good in here we also have
the optional strut brace that comes with
the sport package or the higher trims
can also see just how far back the
engine is from the line of the wheels
which really helps with handling and
this thing sh do handle moving around to
the side you can tell that we have the
GT trim CU we have 17in rims with the
diamond cut Edge rate here these do look
pretty good but I personally think
they're the worst looking that are
available I'd recommend just getting the
lower trim you get better looking wheels
and it's cheaper moving over here just
look at how low this thing is you are
beneath every single person on the road
besides Dan you can lock and unlock your
doors by just pressing right there nice
and easy and if you look these doors are
really big the door actually stops right
about here but then for just fun making
it look cool reasons there's all of this
it does make it kind of difficult to get
in and out sometimes when you have to
have it out here and you're
like but overall it's fine as long as
you don't have mobility issues rear
tires are the same we've got the square
setup and moving over to the trunk it's
not particular ularly large you can
press right here open it up there's a
decent amount of space but the problem's
going to be just fitting stuff in as
long as you can get in this hole it's
going to be good there's a fair bit of
space but the hole can be a problem in
here we also have a tire repair kit a
little light and if you happen to be
wondering the soft top does not
interfere with your trunk space at all
you can put that up and down and will
not affect whatever you have in the
trunk back here we also have two
antennas this one's for your cell phone
and GPS the this one is for FM radio
normally you don't see two antennas on
cars anymore because this FM radio one
will be integrated in your back glass
but as you can see there is no glass
back here and also they have a backup
camera which has been here since 2019
and it's still just as ugly back here we
also have the dinki little dual exhaust
say it's for weight savings and we also
have updated LED lights for the back
which they look pretty cool I guess
hoing into the driver's seat you can see
that I have just enough room I am SI
foot tall and I fit perfectly the seat
is all the way back and I'm I'm pretty
questionable if we get in a rollover but
may maybe I'll be fine if you're 62 63
that's probably when you're going to
start having issues depending on your
leg to Upper torso area if you're maybe
a bit taller yeah right right around
there you'll start having some big
problems well as the driver I have just
enough space the passenger gets just
enough space minus a little bit you can
see they have a great big hump down here
that's where the catalytic converter is
and also the cup holder is just hanging
out right here but it has a Nifty little
trick look at this boom you can just
take it out and move it back there now
being able to move your cup holder
between two spots does sound like a
pretty neat idea but it has a fatal flaw
if you look at it it acts a lot like a
spring if you want to store things
besides two small cups you don't have a
whole lot of options we have one little
spot right here where I was able to fit
my glasses and garage door opener that's
about it and also we have a tiny little
bit of storage back here where we have
the owner's manual and a microfiber
cloth that's just about filled it and a
little Miata so cute and that's about it
for storage there's nothing in the doors
there's no glove box right here and
there is a little spot where you'd think
that your phone would go but mine mine
doesn't really I've just been putting it
across like this it's fine enough but if
I get a bit too into the corners it has
ended up in the passenger seat storage
aside though this is a really great spot
to be these seats are very comfortable
we have the leather ones in our top trim
package even though I personally would
kind of like the raros everything just
feels nice apparently they have a tiny
bit extra padding in the middle here
this year and it is quite comfortable
the steering wheel feels great the whole
just driving position feels good we have
climate controls that just look at this
how hot you want it how much you want
the fan to go where you want the heat to
go it's very simple and wow who would
have ever thought that this system just
works really great what works medium
great is the infotainment if you want to
use Mazda stuff you need to use this
little dial down here it's pretty
satisfying even if you do have to kind
of T-Rex arm to get at it but you're
just going to spend most of your time in
Android AO or apple carplay anyway and
that works fantastic but you do have to
make sure that you have enabled
touchscreen while moving because
otherwise you have to use this dial
which honestly is so freaking dangerous
it took me a little while to find that
setting and man using this to go through
Android auto when it's not made for a
dial terrible time I really like how
they have the body color along the side
here even if our Arrow gray of this one
is pretty darn boring ing I really want
a fun collar for a fun car like this
instead of just normal putty ass looking
2024 stuff but that said everything that
you want is here you've got steering
wheel you have your shifter that is just
right there we have got our parking
brake which is an actual parking brake
instead of those stupid little buttons
and I just want to drive it now Andy
this is a gas car can we put a bunch of
water in the exhaust pipe and rev
it
wow what a segue to our sponsor
War Thunder thanks to War Thunder for
sponsoring this video If you want to get
behind the wheel of some of the most
iconic war machines of all time and
cause utter destruction to your
surroundings look no further than War
Thunder it's a free-to-play
cross-platform online military vehicle
compact game with accurate to life
Renditions of Tanks aircrafts and chips
all from throughout history their damage
x-ray system dynamically registers wear
your shots and reflects the impact on
the vehicle's models making it much more
immersive you probably won't find the
MX5 in this game though that would be
hilarious but what you will find is a
bonus welcome package by War Thunder for
free by using our link down in the
description before we do our 0 to 60
let's do our no top to having a top test
look I now have a roof over top of me it
is incredibly fast and it's just as fast
going the other way it's super nice if
you're about to go on the highway or
maybe you'll get a bit too buffeted to
be able to just floop rip it right up
and then you don't have to worry about
too much wind in here and vice versa now
in their notes that they sent to us
Mazda Canada made sure to tell us that
it is pronounced Mazda not Mazda like it
is in the United States and I'm saying
that because I'm very sorry for this
Mazda
Canada this thing is quite a bit of fun
it has a 0 to 60 of 5.5 seconds which is
really quite rapid but after that you
can definitely feel that there isn't
quite enough power we have 181
horsepower 151 lb feet of torque and it
is just enough like I said before it is
the minimum viable power even though
this is very much not a power kind of
car now that we're moving here you can
see that my hat just wants to take off
I'm just under where the wind is going
but like right on my forehead is where
it hits so if I go just a tiny bit
higher yeah it wants to pull it off
which is why I got a hat that has a
little string right here highly
recommended overall though as long as
her head's not sticking out the top we
are able to do full a roll in here and
it's completely fine with the top down
and even up until about 110 120 km an
hour it's pretty decent in here after
that though put the top up of course
this is a Miata so you don't care too
much about a straight line speed you
want to get into the corners and man
does this thing ever deliver this is one
of the best handling cars that I've ever
experienced maybe the best and on top of
that it is just so much fun we have the
billstein dampers on this which are
pretty great but honestly I kind of just
want the stock ones because I really
appreciate the body Ru let's just dip
her in here man we have a near perfect
50/50 weight distribution the RF
actually is perfect from 50/50 and oh
the way that you can just Huck it into a
corner you don't even have to worry
about breaking cuz it just you aren't
going fast enough anyway and it Corners
so good there are multiple things that
make this an absolute blast in the
corners but one of the main one is the
pedal feel these have some of the best
brake feel that I have experienced in a
modern car where instead of it just
linearly going down and keeping on going
this kind of goes a bit and then it just
has a little bit of of extra Force so
you can just get those excellent heel
toes
and it is an absolute joy and of course
the other thing that is excellent is the
amount of weight like we said at the
start Mazda has put just so much effort
into taking weight out of this thing
that is truly incredible I was one of
the people that did recruiting for Baja
and University and I can tell you that
it is very very difficult to get
Engineers to actually focus on stuff
like that every single person wants to
make a fast car but once they learn that
making a Fast Car means just going to
every single bolt and being like Oh does
this bolt need to be as big does this
connection need to be as big there's a
couple grams
there everyone gets really bored and
drops out I can tell you that for a fact
Mazda has not and I really appreciate
that my personal favorite weight saving
thing here is the transmission un almost
every other transmission you will see a
bunch of ribs around it that adds
rigidity and strength whereas this right
here they're able to just change the
thickness of the walls to give it that
strength that it needs even though it
did have a little bit of a problem with
braking but that was fixed in 2019 have
I mentioned that we have a manual
transmission yet it is one of the
highlights of this car the shifter is
attached directly to the gearbox and you
can really tell because it is just
ripping around all the time I love how
it's just shaking just being like grab
me shift me do it do it come on
and man is it satisfying to use without
great big shifter cables going up to the
front of your car or any of that
nonsense it is just so direct so great
feeling I love it I I really do love the
transmission GES thing I've heard
everyone say it's great they are
correct that is excellent I did complain
a little bit about the engine earlier
but that said it does do all of its jobs
really really really well so many modern
engines will ruin a good transmission
with an annoying thing called rev hang
that is when you put in the clutch but
your revs stay up for a little bit of
time for Missions reasons this right
here though you put in the clutch
immediately starts dropping it probably
helps if there's no turbo on this it is
enough power and the aftermarket will
take care of you if you want more I am
the kind of person that would buy just a
slightly older one I would keep on going
older until it was cheap enough that I
could afford this car and a turbo kit
for it and I would have an absolute
blast doing all of that but I don't
think that Mazda should be the ones to
do it now we have been listening to the
sound of the engine which could really
use a new muffer but what if you want to
hear the sound of the sound system well
it is quite great play crab rave on
title in here we have the nine- speaker
sound system from Bose so we have two in
the doors Two up on the pillars and two
in the the back of the seats but most
importantly we have a sub down in the
passenger footwell and it is
fantastic now I did measure it and
interestingly you get more treble with
the windows up and you also get
noticeably more Bas when you have the
soft top up that said though even with a
soft top down you get extension down to
the 40 HZ range and overall it is just
it is a bang in Sy
[Music]
that's good exceeds expectations for
sure you can be ripping down the highway
and it does get loud enough one thing
that's new for 2024 is adaptive cruise
which I just absolutely love having a
manual transmission but being able to
not worry about people in front of you
slowing down and having to take off
cruise control I just love adaptive
cruise and this is an excellent
implementation of it there also is Lan
keep assist in this but it hasn't been
annoying me which is pretty rare for
those good job on both now there are
some times where this is not so perfect
I have wanted to take more than one
friend to a place or a girlfriend and a
dog and was not able to and also just
the problem is so much of driving is not
down some ideal back road or nice beach
front most of it is down big straight
roads like this one where you're just
just smelling the smells of every single
diesel around you or just the engine of
every single car and it is not the most
pleasant experience also if you have
allergies being open to the elements is
going to leave you sneezing quite a bit
but that said you can just come in here
pop this up rip her down and like we
said before it is super quick and then
it becomes really quite nice and quiet
in here you hear that beep barely those
roads aside though man man this has been
enjoyable to have for the last couple of
weeks haven't seen any rain though one
of my favorite things about this car is
that with its power and its composure I
could give it to literally everyone that
I know and it's going to be totally fine
I don't have to worry about them
destroying the clutch I don't have to
worry about them spinning out and
killing themselves every single person
that I know can learn how to drive a
manual and have an excellent time in
this thing and I just applaud Mazda for
everything that I have done here but
that said would you daily it Andy not
really no no everyone's like it's a
burgain but it's only a bargain if
you're looking for a second car it is a
perfect second car it is the perfect
second car which I guess does bring us
to the price this one right here as spec
is the top trim it comes in at
$42,000 Canadian and for a single car
that's not too bad but for a second car
is kind of getting up there which I
think means we need to start bullying
Mazda drivers again uh there was this
wonderful time where everyone was like
oh that's that's a Barber's car oh are
you Barbie and you're M up we should do
more of that cuz I want to buy an
NA they're freaking $110,000 for one
that's not rusted out and I want one
really bad this right here has been an
excellent experience I have loved
driving this car
my arm is sore from just waving at
everyone that goes past all of the other
Miata drivers except for NC drivers they
just got
a next day Alex here I got so distracted
by that anatomically correct
transmission that I forgot to tell you
about one of the biggest improvements to
the 2024 Miata and it is the limited
slip differential in the back when
you're going around a corner or putting
down traction if you have an open
differential just one of your tires is
going to spin you'll have the one tire
fire very bad time if you want to try
and go fast so we have a limited slip
differential in here to prevent that it
locks the two wheels together and that
is fantastic problem is on the last ones
it would lock the same under braking and
acceleration which meant that sometimes
if you're to Trail brake into a corner
it would get a little bit squirly and if
you Florida coming out of a corner same
sort of thing little bit squirely for
2024 we have an asymmetrical limited
slip differential which has more force
between the tires when you're breaking
and less when you're you're accelerating
so it's a bit stronger on breaking to
make it so that you're more stable and
it's a bit looser on acceleration so
that again you are more stable and I
have to say in highspeed Corners I am
shocked at how good this thing is I
haven't driven the other ones to compare
to but this one fan freaking tastic this
thing it truly is excellent just like
you are excellent huge thanks for
watching this video seriously hit like
this re here needs to get views for us
to do more gas cars Smash It smash
hard right now do it please and have a
fantastic all day I'll see you later we
have a peel
Andy we save this peel just for
you hit like do it